Update 2021 eng org plan (#1989)
sourcegraph/about: handbook/engineering/2021_org.md

# 2021 Engineering Organization Plan

Defining a future vision for the organization is necessary to effectively grow the engineering team. It is understood that all plans change, and this document will be kept up to date with these changes. This is our written plan to align the team and clarify hiring and growth expectations.

> [2021 headcount plan](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UG4aLB5S8yOSOByia2EQgpZkoPxG5eVfqQqgs1f71Vw/edit#gid=2097845084)

Reviewer: Are the years at the top of the spreadsheet correct? The earliest is Q3 2021 which is a a year away :)

Reviewer: I guess it's financial years in which case it makes sense :)

- VP Engineering
  - Director of Engineering - Product
    - [Search Core](search/index.md#search-core) (future split of current Search team)
    - [Search Growth](search/index.md#search-growth) (future split of current Search team)
    - [Campaigns](campaigns/index.md)
    - [Code Intelligence](code-intelligence/index.md)
    - [Code Insights](web/index.md#code-insights) (future team, currently owned by Web team)
    - [Extensions and Integrations](web/index.md#extensions-and-integrations) (future team, currently owned by Web team)
  - Director of Engineering - Infrastructure

>     - [Cloud](cloud/index.md)

Author: Yeah, this is confusing. The "Cloud" effort is a product effort that requires mostly, but not all, backend work. In the steady state, Christina does not want to treat "Cloud" as a separate product, it really isn't a permanent team at all I think (which is what my latest update reflects).

>     - [Deployment and Operations Platform](distribution/index.md#deployment-and-operations-platform)

Reviewer 2: Not sure if better, but the previous name is very long.

```suggestion
    - [Production Platform](distribution/index.md#deployment-and-operations-platform)
```

Reviewer 3: I think Distribution does better capture what is described as the objective and scope of the team. I dont think its a deal-breaker and we can rename in the future.

Author: Thanks for the feedback, I changed this.

    - [Developer Platform](distribution/index.md#developer-platform)
    - [Security](security/index.md)
    - [Backend Platform](backend-infrastructure/index.md) (future team, currently owned by Cloud team)

>     - [Web Platform](web/index.md#web-infrastructure) (future team, currently owned by Web team)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - [Web Platform](web/index.md#web-platform) (future team, currently owned by Web team)
```

> Every team here is a "full stack" team that has all the skills and roles necessary to achieve the team's mission.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Every team here is cross-functional, with all the skills and roles necessary to achieve the team's mission.
```

Reviewer 6: FYI, meta-comment: "cross-functional" always to me "across the _horizontal_ organisational structure": backend engineers, frontend engineers, _designers_, tech writers, etc. "full stack" makes me think vertically: from the browser down to the database/deployment.

Reviewer 5: I have the same perception, and since we highlight "skills and roles" in the same sentence, cross-functional makes more sense to me here.

Examples:

- Product teams own their own on-call and operations, using infrastructure provided by Deployment and Operations Platform team.
  - Is search broken/down? That is the search team's problem to solve.
  - Is our whole Cloud deployment broken/down? That is the Cloud team's problem to solve.
  - Is product team X lacking the tools they need to appropriately monitor their services? That is the Deployment and Operations Platform team's problem to solve.
- Product teams own the security of their parts of the application. They should engage and consult with security experts on our team to get ahead of security concerns.

> - To a first approximation, each team, including infrastructure teams, need product managers. Each team has customers (for infrastructure teams, customers are internal). Most teams need designers too.

Reviewer 4: Does this mean each designer will be considered **members of** one certain team like each PM, as opposed to only being _primarily associated_ with a certain team?

Author: I am not sure what the meaningful distinction is between those two options.

PMs and Designers are part of the functional team (but their manager is not the engineering manager).

In an ideal world, PMs and Designers are 1:1 with teams. In our current, and less than ideal world, we don't have enough PMs/designers so each PM/Designer might be involved with multiple teams.

# 2021 Engineering Organization Plan

Defining a future vision for the organization is necessary to effectively grow the engineering team. It is understood that all plans change, and this document will be kept up to date with these changes. This is our written plan to align the team and clarify hiring and growth expectations.

[2021 headcount plan](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UG4aLB5S8yOSOByia2EQgpZkoPxG5eVfqQqgs1f71Vw/edit#gid=2097845084)

## Product engineering team

> This organization is responsible for building products that deliver value to our customers and drive business growth. Each product engineering team has the autonomy and the necessary cross-functional skills (for example: frontend engineers, backend engineers, site reliability engineers, product manager, designer) to achieve their mission.

Reviewer 7: @nicksnyder do you intend for the site reliability engineering role to fall under the span of influence of the engineering manager of the product team? Or will they be a counterpart to the team like the PM and Designer is and report to a different manager?

Author: Good question. My default instinct is to follow general principles (teams should have full stack ownership) and say necessary SREs will be embedded on the team and report to the EM of the product team. If our monitoring/alerting infra is good enough (built by operations platform team), then it might be unnecessary to have specialized SREs on product teams (frontend/backend engineers can manage the alerts for those areas of the product).
